Leveraging HTML Applications
Next, we will turn our attention
to specific client-side attacks,
beginning with an attack
against HTML Applications.
HTML Applications allow arbitrary
execution of applications
directly from Internet Explorer,
rather than downloading and
manually running an executable.
If a file is created with the
extension of .hta instead of .html,
Internet Explorer will automatically
interpret it as an HTML Application
and offer to execute it using
the mshta.exe program.
Since this clashes with the security
boundaries in Internet Explorer,
an HTML Application is
always executed
outside of the security
context of the browser
by the Microsoft-signed
binary mshta.exe.
If the user allows this to happen, an
attacker can execute arbitrary code
with that user’s permissions,
avoiding the security restrictions
normally imposed by Internet Explorer.
While this attack vector only
works against Internet Explorer
and to some extent Microsoft Edge,
it is still useful
since many corporations rely on Internet
Explorer as their default browser.
This vector leverages features directly
built into Windows operating systems and,
more importantly, it is
compatibile with less-secure
Microsoft legacy web
technologies such as ActiveX.